docs/source/oar.rst, before:

OAR tips
========

This page collect some tips and tricks for managing jobs using the OAR system of |GRICAD|.

.. |GRICAD| raw:: html

    <a href="https://gricad-doc.univ-grenoble-alpes.fr/hpc/joblaunch/job_management/" target="_blank">GRICAD</a>

Submit Jobs with Dependencies
-----------------------------

You can submit jobs with dependencies using the following example. Assuming that
you have two job scripts, `job1.sh` and `job2.sh`, and that you wish to submit
`job2.sh` `after` `job1.sh` is done.

1. Submit `job1.sh` and capture its job ID:

   .. code-block:: bash

      job1_id=`oarsub -S ./job1.sh |grep OAR_JOB_ID|awk -F'=' '{print $2}'`

2. Submit `job2.sh` so that it starts only after the completion of `job1.sh`:

   .. code-block:: bash

      oarsub -S ./job2.sh  -a $job1_id

In this example, `job2.sh` will wait for `job1.sh` to complete
before starting, using the job ID (`job1_id`).

Cancel All Your Jobs at Once
----------------------------

You can cancel all your jobs at once by typing:

.. code:: bash

    oarstat -u username | awk '{print $1}' | xargs -n 1 oardel

where username should be replaced by your ID.

Launch Multiple Jobs
--------------------

Here, tips to efficiently launch multiple jobs are provided.

.. SG: this will be completed when Romain send me an example.

.. code:: bash

    #!/bin/bash
    ...
    #OAR --array 50

    id=`echo "$OAR_JOB_ID - $OAR_ARRAY_ID + 2" | bc -l`  # <---- This id runs from 0 to 50, each job gets one, with which you can e.g. index a bash array
    temperatures=(0.25 0.5 1 .... )
    T=${temperatures[${id}]}

Commit message:

added tip to record job state

docs/source/oar.rst, after:

OAR tips
========

This page collect some tips and tricks for managing jobs using the OAR system of |GRICAD|.

.. |GRICAD| raw:: html

    <a href="https://gricad-doc.univ-grenoble-alpes.fr/hpc/joblaunch/job_management/" target="_blank">GRICAD</a>

Submit Jobs with Dependencies
-----------------------------

You can submit jobs with dependencies using the following example. Assuming that
you have two job scripts, `job1.sh` and `job2.sh`, and that you wish to submit
`job2.sh` `after` `job1.sh` is done.

1. Submit `job1.sh` and capture its job ID:

   .. code-block:: bash

      job1_id=`oarsub -S ./job1.sh |grep OAR_JOB_ID|awk -F'=' '{print $2}'`

2. Submit `job2.sh` so that it starts only after the completion of `job1.sh`:

   .. code-block:: bash

      oarsub -S ./job2.sh  -a $job1_id

In this example, `job2.sh` will wait for `job1.sh` to complete
before starting, using the job ID (`job1_id`).

Cancel All Your Jobs at Once
----------------------------

You can cancel all your jobs at once by typing:

.. code:: bash

    oarstat -u username | awk '{print $1}' | xargs -n 1 oardel

where username should be replaced by your ID.

Record the last Job ID and state
--------------------------------

It can be useful to record the ID of the last launched job.

.. code:: bash

    oarsub -S ./myjob.sh
    oarstat -u username | awk '{print $1}' | tail -n 1 > last_job_id.txt

where username should be replaced by your ID. The file `last_job_id.txt`
will contain the ID of the last launched job. You can also record the entire state
of the job:

.. code:: bash

    last_job_id=$(oarstat -u username | awk '{print $1}' | tail -n 1)
    oarstat -u username -j "$last_job_id" > last_job_state.txt

Launch Multiple Jobs
--------------------

Here, tips to efficiently launch multiple jobs are provided.

.. SG: this will be completed when Romain send me an example.

.. code:: bash

    #!/bin/bash
    ...
    #OAR --array 50

    id=`echo "$OAR_JOB_ID - $OAR_ARRAY_ID + 2" | bc -l`  # <---- This id runs from 0 to 50, each job gets one, with which you can e.g. index a bash array
    temperatures=(0.25 0.5 1 .... )
    T=${temperatures[${id}]}
